Welcome back, to the
computer forensics path,
Course 12, hashing.
In this module, Module 3,
we're going to talk about
hashing files and which
tools we can use to do that.
The hash files, the
hash files in drives,
and which are open source
and which are a commercial tool.
These are some of the
tools we can use to
hash files in folders.
There's the Zimmerman Hasher,
which is open source.
The web address is on the screen.
There's also the Karen Hasher.
The web address is also
in the PowerPoint.
Now these are only two examples.
There are many tools out there,
that will hash files.
Now to hash drives and files,
almost all of your
commercial tools
will hash an entire drive,
or individual files, or folders.
Open source tools that
will hash drives and files
are Autopsy and FTK
Imager from AccessData.
FTK Imager will also allow
us to export a hash list,
which is a very nice feature.
Hashing drives and images,
also an open source tool would be
HDX, or FTK Imager.
We're going to do a walk-through,
where we're going to need to use
the Zimmerman Hasher which
we will download as a group.
We're going to use our Autopsy.
If you did not download
Autopsy, in Course 1,
Module 4, is the download
walk-through for Autopsy.
We're also going
to use FTK Imager.
Again, that download
walk-through is
also in Course 1, Module 4.
We're going to use
our Windows 10 VMDK.
We're going to need
a web browser,
because we're going to
go out and download
the NIST software
reference library.
Hello, and welcome back,
to the computer forensics path.
In this course, Course 12,
we've been talking about
hashing and hash values.
In this walk-through,
we're going to
go ahead and use FTK
Imager to extract a file.
Once we extract that file,
we're going to hash it
using the Zimmerman Hasher.
Then we're going to go
to the NIST website,
and we're going to download
the National Software
Reference Library, the NSRL.
We're going to go ahead
and open Autopsy,
and we're going to create
a known good hash
database from the NSRL.
We're also going to
create a known bad,
using the file that
we're going to extract.
With FTK Imager we're
going to export it,
and then we're going to hash it
with this Zimmerman Hasher,
and that hash value
is going to be
our known bad hash value.
Let's get started. If you
haven't already done so,
please go ahead and
launch FTK Imager.
Once FTK Imager
launches, please file,
and then we're going to
add an evidence item.
Once you've done that,
once you've added
your evidence item,
we're going to add
the Windows 10 VMDK.
It's an image file.
Next, we're going to
browse out to it,
and we're going to pick
the Windows 10 VMDK.
I just click "Open"
and it will launch.
Once you've done that,
we're going to go to partition 2,
we're going to expand the route,
we're going to expand users,
we're going to expand Ivan,
we're going to expand downloads,
we're going to expand new folder,
and we're going to
highlight this upx394w.
The file we're looking
for here is this upx.exe.
We're going to go ahead and
highlight that, right-click.
We're going to click
"Export files."
Now you can save this
anywhere you'd like.
I'm going to go ahead and
save it in my documents.
Click "Okay."
We can see it exported
zero folders in one file,
and it tells us how many bytes.
Once we've done that, we're
all set with FTK Imager.
We can go ahead and
close FTK Imager.
Now I want to go ahead and
open the Zimmerman Hasher.
Once we've opened the
Zimmerman Hasher,
we're going to go File,
and we're going to
select our file.
We're going to navigate back out
to where we saved our file.
I know it was in documents,
and I selected the upx.exe.
I'm going to click
"Open." You can see,
we're immediately presented with
the SHA-132 base and the MD5
hash value of this file.
Now we can go ahead and
under Tools, Options,
you see you can select
different types of hash values.
We could do the SHA-16,
the MD4, SHA-256, SHA-512.
But we're going to go
ahead and we're going
to copy these values.
We're going to copy the MD5 and
the SHA-1 hash values out
to a notepad document.
We're going to go to File,
Save results, To text.
Then it's going to ask you
where you want to save them.
Then you can go ahead and
save them wherever you like.
I am going to go ahead and
put mine in documents again.
I'm going to click "Okay."
Results have been
saved successfully,
and it names them with the date,
and it just names them
as HashResults.txt.
I'm going to go ahead
and navigate out
to that file, HashResults.txt.
We can see it right
here with the date.
Double-click on it, to open it.
You can see, it
gives you the path,
and it's giving you your
SHA-1 and MD5 hashes.
It saves it out in a file for us.
This is the SHA-1 hash
value right here,
and this is the MD5 hash value.
We can go ahead and close
hasher at this point.
Now, let's navigate out to
the NIST software library.
Once we're here, you can see it
explains what NIST
is, and what it does.
We want to go to
the NSRL downloads.
We want the current hash sets.
We want the modern RDS minimal.
We can go ahead and save that.
I'm going to save
that in my downloads.
It's going to download.
Once it downloads,
I'm going to use
7-Zip to extract that.
There are several
different hash sets here.
The full download,
comes in an ISO file.
It's going to be
between 500 megabytes
to almost four gigabytes in size.
It will take a long
time to download.
You don't really need that.
But if you want to
download that on your own,
you can do that.
For the sake of this course,
we are going to just
use the minimal.
There is also the RDS.
Then there's unique.
They also have ones
for Android, iOS,
and legacy computers, older
computers, 1999 and earlier.
This is all the standard type of
software that you would find,
on the computer part of the
operating system files,
regular program files, known
Microsoft Office products.
These are all known files.
It's a National Software
Reference library.
Once you've done that,
go ahead and extract it.
Again, all I did was
right-click "7-Zip,"
"Extract files," choose wherever
you want to extract them to,
and then go ahead and click
"Okay." They're extracting.
It'll take them a
couple minutes because
it is a large file.
While that's running, go
ahead and launch Autopsy.
Once you've launched Autopsy,
if you haven't done so,
create a new case.
How we would do that is we
would go to Case, New case.
You can name the case
anything you want.
I think we may already have
the case in here named hacking.
But I'll walk you through this.
I'm going to call this, and
I know I already
have one of these,
so I'm just going to call _12.
But you can name it
whatever you'd like.
I have it in single user.
Then you'd click "Next."
You give the case a number.
Any number you want is fine.
You could put, usually, the year,
and then the number
that the case is.
You can fill out your
name, your phone number,
email, and it takes some
notes if you'd like.
Once you fill that out the
way you like it hit "Finish."
It will go ahead and
create the case.
Now we're going to add our
disk image or VM file.
I'm going to add
the Windows 10 VM.
You navigate to where you have
the Windows 10 VM saved,
and click "Open."
You can set the time zone.
This is the time zone I am in.
I will find out what time zone
the suspect computer's in.
Or you could set it to
use TC if you'd like.
You can see all the different
times that we have here.
I'm going to leave mine
at American Chicago.
The sector size, I'm going to
leave that as auto detect.
If you knew the hash values,
if you had hashed the
image beforehand,
you could enter those also.
Now next, you hit
the "Next" button.
Then hash lookup,
will run on mine.
We have not installed
hash lookup yet,
so it will not run on yours.
Just check the recent
activities box.
Go ahead and uncheck
everything else.
Let's just do "Deselect All."
We're just going
to go with recent
activities that should do it.
We'll just leave it
at recent activities.
Go in Embedded File Extractor to,
an Extension Mismatch Detector,
File Type Identification.
Just these three, in
recent activity click
"Next." It will run.
Once it's completed running,
we're going to go ahead
now and we're going to
install our hash database.
We're going to go to Tools,
we're going to go to Options.
Here we're going to
select Hash Sets.
You can see I already
have some installed,
but I'm going to go
ahead and create a
new Hash Set local.
I'm going to call the
hash set, known good.
It should take you right
to your hash databases,
and you're going to
save the known good.
I'm going to say known,
and we're going to click "Okay."
Now here I'm going to
import a hash set.
Now I'm going to
navigate out to where
I downloaded the NSRL.
I'm going to select
the NSRL File.txt.
I'm going to click "Open."
You can see it automatically
changes to known NSRL or other.
I'm going to click "Okay."
It's telling me I already
have it loaded in there,
so I can't load it again,
but you should be
able to load that.
Now, I'm going to
create a known bad.
What I'm going to do is I'm
going to go New Hash Set.
I'm going to name it packers2.
You can name it,
whatever you like.
You can just name it packers.
[inaudible].
I'm just going to
give it the default
here, save it there.
It automatically goes
to notable. Say "Okay."
Now what I want to
do is I want to
add hashes to this hash set.
I'm going to click that button.
I'll show you that again.
With the packers2 highlighted,
I'm going to add hashes
to this hash set.
Now what I'm going to
do is I'm going to
use my text document,
that we had before,
and I'm going to go ahead
and put the hash value,
the MD5 hash value,
copy that, and paste it here.
I'm going to say "Okay."
It said one hash,
successfully added.
Now we just click "Apply,"
"Okay." We're all set.
Now, what we're going to do,
is we're going to run
an ingest module.
Again, Tools, Run Ingest Module.
We're running it on
this image file.
Now, I am just going to
uncheck everything else.
I'll go and deselect all.
I'm going to go at Hash Lookup.
It's going to check all of
these hash sets that I
have loaded in here.
You should just have the two,
the known good and the packers.
I'm going to click "Finish."
As it's running, you can see,
it's running down here,
and it's going to
give you all kinds of
messages as it's going.
It will take a
little while to run.
Once it's finished running,
I'm going to go ahead and take
a look at my Results tab.
I'm going to take a
look at hash hits.
I can see I have hash
hits for packers2.
Let's take a better look at here.
Packers2, it shows the
one I just created,
shows me these two hash hits.
Again, it's that upx.exe
that's hitting on.
We can see the file.
That is actually a known
bad file, that's a packer.
That is how we would use
the hash value to
find a bad file.
You could also go through,
and hash all the
files in the case,
and exclude the known good
files, and of walk-through.